.PP
% 
.BR RECAP (1) 
recap user manual
.TH NAME
.PP
recap \- summarize text from stdin via an OpenAI\-compatible LLM
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBrecap\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBrecap\fP reads text from standard input and writes an LLM\-generated
summary to standard output. It targets any OpenAI\-compatible chat
completions endpoint, with optional autodiscovery of a local Ollama
installation.
.PP
Several summarization styles are bundled — for articles, lecture or
video transcripts, podcast conversations, and academic papers — and
new ones can be added by dropping markdown templates into the prompt
directory at build time.
.PP
Summaries are cached on disk under \fB\fC$XDG_CACHE_HOME/recap\fR\&. Because
LLMs are probabilistic, multiple variants for the same input may
coexist in the cache; on a hit, one is picked at random. The \fB\-A\fP
flag concatenates every cached variant for an input as a single
markdown document so the outputs of different models and styles can
be compared with a renderer of choice.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-e\fP \fIURL\fP
:   OpenAI\-compatible base URL. Autodiscovered if empty.
.PP
\fB\-k\fP \fIKEY\fP
:   API key. Defaults to the value of \fB\fCOPENAI_API_KEY\fR\&.
.PP
\fB\-m\fP \fIMODEL\fP
:   Model name. Autodiscovered if empty.
.PP
\fB\-s\fP \fISTYLE\fP
:   Summarization style. Run with \fB\-l\fP for the list. Default: \fB\fCbasic\fR\&.
.PP
\fB\-l\fP
:   List available styles and exit.
.PP
\fB\-i\fP
:   Show the resolved endpoint, model, styles, and cache directory;
    do not call the LLM.
.PP
\fB\-v\fP
:   Verbose. Print resolved configuration, cache state, and timing to
    standard error.
.PP
\fB\-f\fP
:   Force a new summary. Skip the cache read but still record the
    result, growing the variant pool for this input.
.PP
\fB\-A\fP
:   Render every cached variant for the input on stdin as a single
    concatenated markdown document.
.PP
\fB\-t\fP \fIDURATION\fP
:   Request timeout (default 5m).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\fBOPENAI\fIBASE\fPURL\fP, \fBOPENAI\fIAPI\fPKEY\fP, \fBOPENAI_MODEL\fP
:   Used when the corresponding flag is unset.
.PP
\fBOLLAMA_HOST\fP
:   Endpoint used for model autodiscovery when no other configuration
    is available. Defaults to \fB\fChttp://localhost:11434\fR\&.
.SH FILES
.PP
\fI$XDG\fPCACHE\fIHOME/recap/\fP
:   Cache root. Each input has its own subdirectory whose name is the
    SHA\-256 of the input text. Files within are named
    \fB\fC<modelslug>__<style>__<bodyhash>.md\fR and contain YAML front
    matter followed by the response body.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Default summary using the autodiscovered model:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cat article.md | recap
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pick a style tailored to the input type:
.PP
.RS
.nf
recap \-s transcript < lecture.vtt
recap \-s podcast    < interview.txt
recap \-s paper      < paper.txt
.fi
.RE
.PP
Force a fresh variant (the cache grows over repeated runs):
.PP
.RS
.nf
recap \-f < input.txt
.fi
.RE
.PP
Render every cached variant as one markdown document:
.PP
.RS
.nf
recap \-A < input.txt | glow \-
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use a specific model on a remote endpoint:
.PP
.RS
.nf
recap \-e https://api.example.com/v1 \-k "$TOKEN" \-m gpt\-4o < article.txt
.fi
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Martin Czygan \[la]martin.czygan@gmail.com\[ra]
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fB
.BR glow (1)\fP, 
\fB
.BR ollama (1)\fP
